---
layout: post
title: "Game Review: Yuan Zhou on Kyu Cornucopia"
summary: Yuan Zhou reviews a game between me and another player at our monthly group lesson.
---
One of the strange aspects of being a student of Yuan Zhou is that I get to see "my games show up every so often in the American Go Association newsletter":http://www.usgo.org/news/2013/05/members-edition-yuan-zhou-on-kyu-cornucopia/. These are games that we play in the afternoon during the monthly group go lessons. They're tournament-style games, with 45 minutes on the clock for each player, and they're handicapped according to our class <a href="http://xyzgoclub.com">ladder</a>.

After all the games our finished, he reviews each one, which is a fantastic way to learn. Not only to I get to hear detailed feedback on my own moves and the moves of other players of similar ability, I get to ask questions immediately about points I don't understand or other possibilities about which I'm curious.

This particular game was against a player who is ahead of me on the ladder and against whom I was one and one, though with a reverse komi each time. (Instead of adding handicap stones, we award reverse komis so that the game flows more like an even game.) I don't find his style to be intimidating, but he has a way of whittling away at me with more accurate reading. This game I fell behind due to too-typical mistakes, but was able to come back later by cutting off one of his groups.

I hope you'll enjoy my teacher's comments; big thanks to Bill Cobb and Myron Souris for creating the game record. In the game record, the players are anonymized, but I hereby confess to playing black.

<div class="eidogo-player-auto" sgf="/sgf/2013_05_07_anonymous_kyus_yuanzhou.sgf"></div>


